In the last video i showed you how
to use translate function to move
our coordinate system around and, thereby,
make it easier to draw multiple objects.
There's an additional function that allows us to
manipulate our coordinate system and that is the
rotate function. The rotate function
takes the angle, as usually in radians.
Rotate and then we use our little formula.
Let's say 45 degrees and if i save this,
our square rotates. And you might have
imagined that the square rotates around
itself, but what is happening here, is that our
coordinate system is rotating around the origin,
so the the zero point of our coordinate system.
And this is the rotation center of our element.
You might actually know this from graphics editing
software. There sometimes you can actually move
the rotation center around and, thereby,
change how an object is rotated.
If we want our object to actually rotate around
itself, we need to move our objects into the
center of our coordinate system. In this case,
it's quite simple, because our rectangle is 100
pixels wide and 100 pixels high, so we simply need
to move it 50 pixel to the left and up. And now
it's hard to see. So let's change this and simply
move this into the center of our canvas. Now that
we can see that our rectangle has been rotated 45
degrees around itself Just to to visualize this,
i will simply add a center point so we can better
understand where the rotation is happening.
Other way around.
Now we can see, the center is exactly in the
middle and the rectangle is rotating around the
center. Of course we could also use a variable to
add some motion to our graphic here. Let's rotate.
Define the angle, set it to zero in the beginning,
use it here and add one after each draw cycle.
And now our rectangle is
rotating around the center.
Let's make it a little bit more interesting and
make the rectangle rotate around the center but
move it a little bit away from the center
so that it's flying around the center point.
Therefore, we simply add another
translate and let's just say 100 100.
Now we can see that our square is orbiting the
invisible center point. To make it visible again,
we simply visualize the center before we do the
translate. Now you can see again we have the
center point and our square is rotating around
the center. This might be a bit confusing in
the beginning, but it gives you a lot of
different opportunities to create moving
and rotating objects. That are a lot easier to
calculate. Otherwise you would need to exactly
calculate where each point is
through rotation, through angles
and using the rotate function,
it all becomes a lot more easier.